Hi, everybody.
We're going to have a phenomenal conversation
in just a moment here with Christopher Bache,
who I consider to be, and I know
he'll be blushing if I say this, but really
a hero
of our times for being willing to take on
a journey that most of us would not be able
to withstand to find out about the nature
of consciousness.
The mind of the universe.
In his book, LSD, the Mind of the Universe,
he shares with us his experiences of some,
I think 73 different journeys he did with
a very prescribed protocol and with someone
sitting with him and protecting him over
decades to be able to journey sequentially
further
and further out into what the future of
humanity looks like.
So here we go.
Meet Christopher Bache.
If you don't already know him.
Hello, Christopher.
It's so good to see you.
Hi, Regina.
How are you?
I'm doing well.
I'll tell you, I say that
very sincerely after reading your book
the other people who I know who've read your
book as well, the question that comes up
about halfway through is, why in the world
did
he continue?
When you went through that much pain,
that much suffering, enough that it took months,
even a year to recover from a journey,
but you would come back, you were relentless
in your search.
So just set it up really briefly for people.
What made you do this?
You're a professor of theology, philosophy.
What made you go on this journey starting
way back when?
At first, I think it was a foolish
strategy to push it as hard as I did, but
I didn't
know any better at the time or I was young
and stupid.
But I was trained as a philosopher
of religion with a passionate desire to
understand the deep structure of the universe.
I had studied some of the great minds in our
Western philosophical and Eastern traditions.
When I found this methodology that Stan made
available,
I just decided to push it as long and as hard
as I could.
And there was a great deal of suffering on
it,
episodically and periodically.
But at the end of every episode of intense
suffering,
there would be a breakthrough into
an episode, a phase of deep ecstatic bliss
and deep transpersonal encounter.
And the value of those insights and that ecstasy
balanced out, more than balanced out,
the transient episodes of suffering.
In the beginning, when you first started
the journey, the very beginning part
was what you title in the book.
And it took you 20 years or so after all these
experiences to
finally write this book and put it out for
the rest of us.
It was called The Death of Ego.
And while you were in the midst of it,
you were saying, 'What was I thinking?'
So let's just set it up with what that very
first-
and we only have about 45 minutes,
people are going to have to read the book
themselves,
we're going to hopscotch through the phases
you went through.
But let's start with
'What was I thinking?'
What happens upon the dissolution of the ego?
If you want to allow your consciousness to
expand into the broader dimensions,
the deeper dimensions of consciousness,
you must surrender the narrow bandwidth of
your individual body,
mind, ego.
And so this happens slowly or fast, convulsively
or smoothly.
But that identity
that we hold has to be shattered, has to be
kind of destroyed.
And when it's destroyed, then
your consciousness does naturally expand-
expands into a deeper register of wider spectrum
of consciousness.
If you do this,
if your journey continues repeatedly, as we'll
get to,
you go through many such death sequences.
But it's not repeating the original ego death,
the original ego death is kind of the first
transition from your time space identity into
a deeper spiritual experience of the universe.
Thank you for that.
And on the subject of death,
as you come to say, toward the end of the
book,
you relished the death process.
By the end, death was something you looked
forward to in each one of these journeys,
because it freed you so much from all of the
constraints in terms of consciousness.
And so we'll build up to that.
But one of the arts you went through
was you became a woman,
you started experiencing the life birthing
all these elements of being a woman,
which was part of your identity is to be a
male
to be an academic, and so forth.
Just briefly, what was your experience?
What did that do to you
when you suddenly connected with the female
experience after being male?
About two and a half years into my journey,
about 10/11 sessions, and the universe put
me into this situation where I could
experience nothing except from within feminine
identity.
A feminine identity.
And it was a feminine form,
a womanly form that was the exact opposite
of my own male, academic, intellectually oriented
form.
And it was totally terrifying to experience
myself being me, but not being me within a
framework that I'd ever known before.
And it just snapped me.
And so when I let go,
and I yielded, then I became hundreds,
potentially thousands of women, and was given
a journey
into the world of women under the arm of the
Great Mother.
And it was an ecstatic experience,
a wonderful experience.
In fact, when it opened,
I thought, 'What was I so afraid of?'
'Why was I afraid of this?
This is marvelous.'
And what was the universe was doing was,
it was basically teaching me that where
I was going, gender does not exist.
So all gender, all roles based on gender and
any aspect of my
historical personality had to be surrendered.
If I were going to experience more intimately,
what is there in the universe.
So I would ask you this on behalf of the men
and women watching this,
what was the most either terrifying
or irritating and difficult part initially,
being confronted with a woman's reality?
The most terrifying part
in the beginning was it just wasn't my reality.
It was a reality, but it wasn't my reality.
And I couldn't get out of it.
I was trapped within a
feminine mode of experience that just wasn't
me.
There was nothing inherently frightening about
it.
And then when I let go and flowed with that
experience, oh, what a- it was like having
half
of the human race open to me that had not
been
open to me before.
Now I believe in reincarnation
and I believe we've been men and women many
times.
So there's nothing foreign in that way.
This was different.
This was kind of opening almost into,
I don't want to say an archetypal dimension
of womanhood,
but certainly to the collective life
being lived by women in history, in time.
So the joy was just to experience a whole
different way
of being alive than I had known as Chris Bache.
As the academic as the male engaging in academic
conversation.
And here you're dealing with a very
different kind of connection and flow between
women.
Yeah, I thought that was fascinating.
It's an interesting part of your book.
I wish every
man could have an experience like this.
It truly, it does change things profoundly.
You know,
and the other way around and women should
have the other.
So we understand what each other is
contending with in our bodies in this reality.
So let's move forward to session 11.
And this, there much has happened since then
time has passed,
of course.
But when we go into session 11,
it really becomes about archetypal deep mass
suffering
that you had to go through witness and experience.
And if you could tell us what that body of
body
of memory, collective memory felt like and
what it
looked like to you, that would be helpful
because
we're still in it.
My transition from an ego
death process, which is very personal related
to what
came over the next two years.
So it's a series of
excruciatingly difficult, horrendous ways
of vast
landscapes of human suffering, war, violence,
just unimaginable suffering.
It was transitioned by an
experience called the killing of the children.
And I just want to mention that because it's
an
important signal.
In between those two,
I had this experience of being an old woman
confronting
soldiers who were just killing thousands
and thousands of children, just smashing their
heads
on rocks, this terrible, terrible ordeal.
And I think this experience was given to me
to prepare
for me for what was going to come this ocean
of
suffering phase.
That is it awakened the depth of
compassion in me, which I think was embedded
at
a soul level to prepare me to take on the
work,
which is something my soul had chosen to do
in
this lifetime.
What I learned was that just as
individual trauma gets buried in our individual
psyche and can compromise our individual health,
the trauma of history is buried in the collective
psyche of humanity.
And so anything which is not
resolved by the species that any one generation
accumulates in these massive memory structures
that I call metacoic systems.
And what I think
was happening was that something guiding my
sessions
began to use my sessions in order to confront,
absorb and transmute vast territories of collective
anguish
hat were embedded in the collective psyche,
meaning the patient stopped being Chris Bache.
And in some way, the patient became some aspect
of the human species.
So with that, I want to ask you about something
that's happening currently.
We have all of this
going on in the Middle East between Palestine
and Israel.
And we have collective side taking,
we have collective anger, depression, anxiety
all occurring.
And we have a propensity toward people
who have been, have proclivities toward prophecy
to look at this as the end times, whether
it's
a Christian community waiting for rapture,
whether it's conspiracy groups saying, no,
this is
a planned end time for humanity.
We get into these end times
stories that start circulating.
But I want to ask you,
having been through what you went through,
you have this overlay to it in your psyche
that
I'd like to know about.
Could you tell us how you
see these times laid into what you went through?
Jumping many years ahead in my work,
and I summarize my experiences of our time
in history,
what's happening underneath the surface,
where we're going in a chapter called
The Birth of the Future Human.
And there, I was given a number
of visions over many years of humanity coming
to a turning point, humanity coming to a
spiritual breakthrough, an evolutionary turning
point,
a shift in the plate tectonics of the collective
psyche.
And then eventually, in 1995,
was taken in a very deep experience dissolved
into the species mind,
dissolved into what I call deep time,
being taken into the future and where
I experienced a death and rebirth process
of the human family altogether,
not as an individual,
but the death and rebirth of humanity.
It was a global systems crisis that
was seemed to be precipitated by a series
of escalating ecological crises.
Now, beyond that, I wasn't given any details
about it.
I wasn't given dates.
I wasn't given any specific, nothing about
artificial intelligence,
nothing about a third world war, nothing like
that,
just the experience of the human family going
through a prolonged period of an absolute
loss
of control and a collapse of everything they
had considered the normal and necessary goods
or
or standards of their world.
Ever since that time,
I've lived with this awareness.
And for me,
it's not a projected fantasy.
It's not something which I envisioned.
It's something which I experienced.
So for me, I can't, I don't question
the truth of it.
So I experienced this period of history.
It's a period of increasing a destabilization
and increasing escalation of conflicts
and breaking down all our norms and our norms
and conflict between races, conflict between
religions, complex between conflict, between
sexes,
between classes, all the tremendous things
that
we've been doing to each other, terrible
things over thousands and thousands and thousands
of years.
We have to go beyond where we are and
grow spiritually into the next form that's
emerging,
I think, in an evolutionary sense in the human
as the human form.
So I think this is what we're going into.
That's why we're beginning to
experience so much destabilization.
And I think what's happening now is not in
any way a final or
turning point or any final register.
I think we're going we're in a process which
will continue to
deepen for decades and decades to come.
So this is, I think, just the overture of
what's coming
and the terrible events unfolding in the Middle
East
and other countries and many African countries,
other places in the United States.
These are bringing to the surface age old
hatreds
and we have to transform these hatreds.
And I don't offer any political social solution
to
the events we're looking at.
My perspective is not at the ground level.
My perspective is from the
level far above the earth, looking at the
long
evolutionary trajectory forms.
Thank you for that incredibly thoughtful and
articulate answer.
And now what we'll do, because we did jump
ahead
a bit there, which we'll work our way back
toward,
there are some other things in there.
But let's go back now to session number 15,
where you learned
about karma because all of this has karma
embedded in it.
You learned about the essence of karma.
And tell us what you learned about karma at
that time.
I had already, I mean, I was an academic
and I was a professor of religious studies.
So I had an intellectual understanding of
karma, which is
simply cause and effect generated by choices
that we make.
There are physical cause and effect processes
and there's
psychological cause and effect processes.
And in the traditional worldview
of karmic thought, every choice we make sets
in
motion a series of events, which eventually
we
received the consequences of, we received
the effects of,
and by receiving the effects
of our choices, we learn from those choices
and we make a new set of choices.
What I learned in session 15
wasn't so much a theoretical interpretation
of karma
because I had that.
It was a seeing and being shown the karma
of my particular life.
I went through a series of sessions for a
year,
over and over again for seven sessions,
where I experienced the entirety of my life
from beginning
to end as a happening, as a totality,
as a finished complete totality.
And this is my first entry
into what I came to call deep time.
And in that context, when I looked at relationships,
the relationships around me, my people,
when I that I was working with in
my professional life, I could see how deeply
embedded they were in a deeper series of karmic
causal processes that my position in history
was not accidental.
The people I was with were not accidental.
It was a meaningful fabric.
Then the question became simply,
how do you respond most effectively
to a meaningful fabric that your life is part
of?
Okay, that brings us to something that
I wasn't going to ask you about, but it seems
like the
right point.
You just spoke about every decision
we make has an effect.
And so yesterday, two days ago,
a book was released by Dr. Robert Sapolsky.
And it has to do with the science of living
with
no free will, the title, something like that,
as I recall.
But essentially, he came to the conclusion
that there is no such thing as making a decision
in free will, that we're machines,
and we cannot lay anything that we do upon
ourselves any more
than we would any other machine.
So I would love for you to respond to that.
Well, I haven't read that book.
- of course.
And so no, just came out.
Yeah.
And, but that's a very familiar position
among my philosophers in my department,
among philosophers in general.
And it derives from a
vision of the universe, which is based upon
a
19th century metaphysics, which sees the universe
as a machine, as a deterministic machine,
and all the parts are determined by the larger
movement
of the whole.
And we have no freedom.
But I think that's a deeply outmoded
and outdated vision of reality.
We're now looking at a quantum world,
we're in a world which values indeterminacy,
that there is much more flexibility in the
system than
we had previously thought.
96% of the entire
of reality is dark matter or dark energy.
And we don't know anything about it.
I think if we just step back,
it's clear that much of our psychological
life is clearly highly conditioned.
But within that highly conditioned context,
we make choices and the choices we make
can increase the conditioning,
or it can reduce the conditioning.
Exactly.
And we can increase our freedom,
but nobody exists in pure absolute freedom,
except perhaps the awakened, the fully enlightened
beings,
but we can increase the freedom by skillful
choices.
I hope you're enjoying this video because
if you are,
there are dozens more like it on my site,
all supported by people like you.
So if you'd like to keep this work rolling
in and join our community,
just click on the Patreon button at ReginaMeredith.com.
That also gives you access to Insider Commentary,
my live book club and other live events with
special guests.
So join in.
Thanks.
I was very disturbed because the media picked
right up
on this and he got a loudspeaker off of this
one.
I thought, this is so archaic and essentially
saying we have no self responsibility either.
Oh yes, we can't take credit for the best
of us, but we also don't take credit for the
worst of ourselves.
So we have no part in what we do as acting
as machines.
I thought like you, how outdated is this?
Considering the quantum reality that we're
becoming aware of.
So one thing I wanted to read out of your
book because
your talk is this feeds into it the notion
of us.
We have a soul.
We have something that transcends this physical
reality,
which that author does not recognize, by the
way.
So you in when at the end of the karma it
says energy started must simply complete itself
and that's the nature of karma.
So then I go into this area that I chose
where you're defining the soul itself because
a lot of people wonder what is it I'm made
of?
You know, at the most the most etheric, most
sublime part of myself.
It says a story of individual consciousness,
ultimately sourced in the creative intelligence
of the cosmos, systematically moving back
and forth between the physical universe and
a surround metaverse in a long journey of
self development.
I think that's one of the best definitions
of soul and the one I probably relate most
strongly to in my own system of understanding.
Anything that you care to add to that so
people can understand that this soul is here
for expansion,
experience, choice, and anything
you'd like to add to that in terms of what
you came to understand is what our soul is
and what it's here to do.
Just as we have a center of integration that
integrates all of our experiences from this
lifetime and we're not quite sure how to
describe that or what it is but we know what
it feels like and what we can understand it.
The soul is simply a center of integration
that integrates all of our experiences from
all of our lifetimes and our times in between
our lifetimes.
So it is a center of integration that is a
learning system,
is part of a learning system
which is continuously growing, continuously
expanding and deepening.
If we ask what is the essence of what that
consciousness is, classic spiritual traditions
have said the essence of every individual,
the soul, is the essence of the totality.
Atman is Brahman.
The essence of the soul is the essence of
the divine.
For me, the form, in my deepest experience
of the form
of the soul and the form of all, reality is
light.
It's light but not light as we experience
it
in the physical world, a much more profound
form of light.
It is light but it is light which is self-aware
and learning over vast epics of time and continuing
to evolve as it learns and I think we are
coming in the time to a transformation which
is going to change.
I think we are actually giving birth to the
soul inside time and space.
That is usually we die, we expand to the
soul, we incarnate, we contract to ego, we
die,
we go expand to soul and if we just keep
that up for a few hundred thousand years,
sooner
or later I think the soul, the integrated
consciousness we return to when we die,
manifest or wakes up inside the individual
human being
and that's what I call the birth of the diamond
soul.
Literally wake up inside physical existence.
I think that is the challenge that we are
facing in this century.
We no longer have the luxury of trying to
run this planet based on the experience or
the psychological structure of individual
ego.
The ego is a magnificent entity but it is
limited,
it is cut off from each other and from the
larger universe.
We need to grow up fast and grow up in this
case is to awaken to the soul that we already
are but we haven't experienced fully inside
time and space.
Well that is an understatement.
Yes, we do need to wake up fast.
Now we come to a point where you had a session
and after that you did not have another one
for six years, you quit for six years.
Just briefly a synopsis of the session,
why you stopped for six years and what happened
when you picked it back up because that's
the fascinating part to me.
I stopped for six years because my wife who
was my sitter asked me to.
Too many things were coming up out of my sessions
that were very novel and disruptive
and she just wanted the whole thing to slow
down
and she asked me to stop so I did.
And then when I resumed I always knew I would
resume and when I did resume six years later
I had my wife's support and she continued
to be my sitter through all of the remainder
of my sessions.
So it was kind of a husband-wife negotiation.
Yes, and the other part I found interesting
is that when you pick back up six years later
you're being picked up at the exact same spot
you left off.
That was striking because I was in the middle
of the ocean of suffering work so I was going
to see horrendous suffering.
Six years later, different period of my life,
different expectations in different astrological
aspects, my sessions began exactly where it
had stopped and continued to deepen the ocean
of suffering for another year.
Meanwhile, but in the ecstatic portion of
my sessions, when I had stopped I was doing
this,
you know, experiencing the whole of my life
from start to finish, boom.
Now I left all that behind and I was going
into subtle structure reality and being given
a crash course in cosmology, how the universe
works.
And then we start going to lessons 25-26.
I was absolutely fascinated with.
I just, I was trying, but I was trying to
read into it through my own lens and filter
of understanding and that was you were out
in the cosmos and you started encountering
vast beings, vast beings that were almost
like galaxies in of themselves.
And none of us have ever seen this or felt
this or experienced this.
Maybe just give us a glimpse into what
seemed to be the makeup of these beings,
but the thing that fascinated me was that
you said
these beings live through humanity,
experienced through humanity, love through
humanity.
Fill us in.
I've often had kind of reservations about
that particular line in my sessions,
but I kept it in because it's in my original
notes.
When the ocean of suffering came to a culmination
and exploded me into a deeper level of consciousness,
the distinctive quality of
this level of consciousness is two things.
It was incredibly old, ancient, ancient,
beyond anything I'd ever imagined before.
Very, very old.
And it was more real than time and space.
So I was being catapulted in what I eventually
came to understand as archetypal reality,
which is a level of reality
which historically exists before time and
space exist and
contributes some of the fundamental structures
of time and space.
So the vision here is that all of reality
emerges out of a primal one, which starts
as
a void and manifest in the form of the Big
Bang.
But in between the one and even the Big Bang,
there are many gradations of being,
many unfoldings that take place of the divine.
Though I don't like to use that word because
we have so many connotations of the divine.
I want to go with that.
And there are many, many layers and our
lower levels are sourced in the actions of
higher levels.
And so I was encountering these, I don't know
whether to call them beings or principles,
but vast, vast beings.
Other people have experienced them too,
because I think it's a universal structure
we're bumping into.
The very best my mind could do to give it
form was to see them as galaxies because
I've watched the Hubble telescope in the James
Webb.
And we see these galaxies that are billions
and billions of light years across.
So big we can't even imagine them.
And my mind was using those images just to
give a picture to these beings that were not
galaxies, but they have that massive scale.
And these beings were part of the process
of creation, creating the time and space and
some of the structures within time and space.
And far, far, far down the line, we have human
beings.
And the insight here was that in some way,
all of human beings
and actually all of existence was an expression
of the intentions
of these deeper cosmological principles and
cosmological beings.
In some way, I'm not sure that I got all of
the pieces lined up correctly there,
but I do think that all of human experience,
male,
female, all versions of human experience are
aspects of a species intelligence.
And that species intelligence is an aspect
of
a planetary intelligence, which is an aspect
of a solar system and a galactic intelligence.
And there is a way in which these deeper
intelligences manifest as our lives and they
are
experiencing the world as we experience the
world and
they're experiencing the adventures that we
are having as we have them.
So that would bring us to the question then
that our experiences and again, we're looking
at everything.
We're all watching this through our mind,
through an egoic lens, all the filters of
our past.
So each one of us is hearing this the way
we will hear it.
But it makes us wonder if we're kind of the
end toward the end result of these vast systems
of consciousness, intelligence, desire and
creativity, how much of what we're expressing
in the world is sovereign at all.
Well, you know, when I experienced this
embeddedness in these higher orders of creation,
I never experienced it in any way being manipulative,
and I never experienced it as
being representing a compromise of my individual
agenda, individual freedom.
I experienced this downward flow of causation,
but as part of a profound, gracious, compassionate,
intelligent process which was giving me and
all
of us opportunities to grow and develop that
we
might not otherwise have.
So it was, we live in
a conditioned universe at levels upon levels
upon levels,
and at the same time, it's a creative
universe which is constantly manifesting new
levels,
new things emerging out of our fundamental
deep structure.
And I just experienced this as I was seeing
a complexity that had always been there,
but I had not appreciated before.
So whatever is happening has always been the
way it's happening.
It says that we're beginning to be aware of
what's happening.
Thank you.
It gives us, each one of us, we could just
go over this
piece over and over and try to get our minds
around the vastness of it.
Thank you for that,
and also for sharing that it was filled with
grace.
I very much appreciate that part of the story.
And another one we move on to is
purification through reincarnation, but we're
looking at
groups of people, tribal, epoch periods of
history are involved when we're looking at
reincarnation, purification through
reincarnation as groups of people throughout
history.
Can you just talk about what that looks like
a little bit?
Well, my focus was not on groups of people,
but on all of humanity.
When I moved into the archetypal domain,
I moved into first an inguent counter with
these cosmic archetypes.
And then I was dropped down into what you
might
call more of a Jungian level of archetypal
reality,
where I experienced all of humanity
repeatedly as a single organism.
And I was shown,
given many lessons over the next year,
that each of our minds were like a fractal
spark within a species mind.
Each of our bodies were
cells within an integrated body of humanity.
And
so there was a continuous flowback system
between
from the whole of humanity into the specificity
of each of us individually.
And then the choices that we were making were
flowing back into the
collective, very similar to Rupert Sheldrake's
Morphic Fields theory.
We tend to incarnate during different periods
of history to purify
a previous period of history, but we're doing
it together.
We're doing it as a species,
you know, and as almost soul and tribal
geographic groups.
One of the things that happened in this
period is that I began to experience, have
certain
visionary experiences of the entire human
species
incarnating as a single organism.
And each of our
individual lives were cells within that organism.
Previously, and I had written a book on
reincarnation, previously, I had always thought
of reincarnation as a story of the individual
soul's journey towards enlightenment.
But now,
I saw all of our individual journeys, an aspect
of its collective journey.
And so what each of us
were dealing with was not just personal, it
was also collective.
It wasn't just this century,
it was an expression of something taking place
in a larger pattern.
And I think I was given this
teaching, which went on for a long time, years,
in order to prepare me for what was beginning
to unfold,
which is this deep revision of
the where humanity is in its evolutionary
story,
challenges we're beginning to face, and the
death and rebirth and the birth of the next
iteration
of human consciousness, soul consciousness,
diamond soul.
We're going to get to the diamond
soul in just a moment.
I just have one more
question I wanted to ask you before that,
because
this is a big one for a lot of people watching
this.
You had assumptions about reincarnation,
we all have assumptions about everything.
You
were learning, you know, this has been your
life's
path is studying this.
One of the things many
people watching this have in common with what
your previous belief was, is that to reach
oneness is the end of the road.
The notion of oneness is
the end of the journey.
Can you tell us what you
discovered when you finally found that oneness?
Oneness is a profound truth.
I mean, it is an
absolutely foundational, profound truth, which
is kind of a seminal understanding that runs
through all the world's spiritual traditions.
It's kind of a bedrock, because oneness brings
us in touch with our essential nature, which
is
underneath the variability of our surface
nature.
Oneness generates deep compassion.
When you have
experienced oneness, you are naturally going
to be
gentle with everyone around you, including
yourself.
You'll be compassionate beyond measure.
And
to experience oneness is a profound step in
our spiritual journey.
But I don't think it's the end step.
Sometimes the end step is described as
dissolving into the primal void that precedes
even the manifestation of the physical universe.
But in my experience, even that is not the
end step.
Should I give one comment that you made?
You said it does not exhaust all cosmological
truths.
Yes.
Yeah.
And oneness is a profound
stage in our development, but the universe
has
been evolving for 13.7 billion years.
It's going to continue to be evolving
for billions and billions and billions of
years.
An individual and a species awakening to the
truth of oneness,
that's a profound turning point for that individual
in
the species life.
But the evolution continues,
challenges continue.
It's not simply that
we achieve oneness, we awaken, become spiritually
realized, and we leave the planet, we leave
the
system and go into some type of off-planet
paradise.
Oneness is a profound stage in our journey.
I would start sounding like science fiction
if
I were to try to share some of the things
that
I've been shown about the magnificent being
human humanity is evolving into.
Please go there,
this audience is open to science fiction.
The future human, which I think we are giving
the process of giving birth to in history,
the form
I've described it as the birth of the diamond
soul.
This is a, the future human is not simply
a
human being with an open heart, a healed heart,
and an expanded heart, which holds the entire
world in compassion.
And it's not just an open mind,
which is able to take in and enter into
deeper communion with the intelligence of
the
cosmos and incarnate that intelligence within
their own being.
But it actually transforms the fundamental
physiology
of our body and our a sensory experience.
We have a tendency to have
mechanistic understanding of sensation.
The eyes, light comes in, brain processes,
senses, touch.
It's kind of very mechanical, but in my
experience in the sessions, it's not quite
that simple.
The more conscious we are and the more
conscious we consolidate, and I'm talking
about not
consciousness, which is collected over
experience over thousands and thousands of
years,
but the more consciousness we consolidate,
it not only heals our heart and opens our
mind,
it enlivens senses so that our eyes are in
the process,
our visual experiences in the process
of becoming hundreds of times more sensitive
than normal today.
Our taste, our touch, our sexuality,
all the physical senses are in the process
of
being transformed.
And if we ask how far can this go?
You had an experience where you didn't understand
what was going on,
as I recall when I read the book,
where you were looking at something,
but it didn't look as you normally saw it.
I think you were looking at your hands.
Is that correct?
It was the very last session that was the
73rd session,
and I was at the end stage of that
session about five hours in, and I was given
an experience that I came to call Diamond
Vision.
All of a sudden, my vision was a thousand
times
sharper than I'd ever known it to be.
I could see things,
I could discriminate colors and shades and
textures.
I was looking at my hands and I was able
to see every pore at the base of every hair
follicle.
I mean, it was just amazingly detailed.
I could
see dust floating in the air with great precision.
I could count leaves on a tree.
And then after
about 10 minutes, it disappeared.
And I was back
to my ordinary, perfectly focused vision.
And
that's when I understood that I was seeing
through
the eyes of the future human, that the future
human is a transformation of our physical
sensations
of our entire, so our entire existence is
being polished, evoked, brought forward into
deeper
forms of manifestation by the universe.
This is so beautiful.
And that was, as I recall,
it was sessions 71 through 73, where you were
shown
that this human being, this vehicle,
is designed for rapid transformation.
And please expand on that
a moment before we come toward our close here.
Well, in the 70th vision, I was given what
I consider the last great vision of my journey.
After that, it was kind of wrapping it up.
But
in that journey, I was taken deeply into deep
time
and given three core experiences.
And one of
those experiences was an insight into how
it is
that humanity is actually built, designed
for
accelerated evolution.
And it's basically we have
the surface of our being is reincarnation,
we incarnate, we learn, we grow, we change,
we make decisions, we incarnate again, different,
this is that part.
But underneath the incarnate,
there are incarnating self, there is a deeper
structure,
which holds all of our incarnational memories,
and is the fundamental blueprint,
in a sense, from within which we act and behave.
So that all of humanity is growing and
changing, growing and changing.
And there is a structure
to the collective psyche, a very specific
structure, which is accumulating and storing
all
this information while we change individually,
this
deeper than individual structure is holding
it.
And periodically, that deeper structure goes
through a change of a pivot.
It's what I call
a shift in the plate tectonics of the collective
psyche.
I think it's the genius of creation that we
learn at
an individual level, but it collects at a
deeper level.
And periodically, that deeper level changes.
And after that shift takes place,
all individual experience is based on that
changed
fundamental psyche.
So that after we go
through the birth of the future human, all
future
incarnations of all beings, all human
beings, will be operating out of transform
this new
fundamental collective psyche.
And it's going to continue,
it doesn't stop.
So individuals learn and grow,
it's collected at a deeper level,
and that deeper level learns and grow like
Rupert Sheldrake talks about morphogenic fields.
And it's an ongoing, continually evolving
process.
And you know, I've interviewed many, many
people
over the last 20 years in this particular
role.
And I do also interview people who channel
other beings from other times in spaces.
And one thing that has come up repeatedly
is that
what humanity is moving toward, it's a total
overlay
with what you're saying, is to this expansive
being, this refined being that incarnates
into
the physical body, who's operating through
the heart center, as the primary influence
of
intelligence.
And that we, this is a species
that can end up and will end up being a model
for other species throughout the universes.
Is that how you saw it too, once we can embody
all of this?
You know, there was just one
piece, one line in all of the sessions that
seemed
to indicate something like that.
What I intuited was that Earth was a hothouse,
a form of consciousness that would in time
be exported to other solar systems in our
galaxy.
I don't think we're the origin of all life.
And I'm sure that there is evolution taking
place
in highly developed forms in all sorts of
solar systems
and other galaxies.
But at least here, we seem to be growing something
which is destined, it seemed to me, just that
one inclination seems to be destined for more
than planet Earth.
Well, I just wanted
to say you have validation there from other
sources
who have given that information through to
us.
It's a while getting there.
We just have to trip
through these times.
Again, I can't thank you
enough for the courage it took you.
We didn't
talk about what you went through, but I mean,
we're
talking about life wrecking consequences of
taking
such high doses of LSD that you say now was
really insane to have done, but you didn't
know any better.
You lived through it.
Thank God, because it really pushed you out
there.
I truly do not, I do not recommend it.
I'd be much gentler if I were doing it again.
And I recommend a gentler protocol if you're
going to work with psychedelics.
Yes, yes.
And you say that repeatedly in the book.
So I recommend for people to.
really dive into this
We just touched a few places in the book.
There's so much more connective tissue to
this story of the human,
the collective human being.
And any final thoughts
you want to leave us with today before we
sign off?
First, I want to thank you for helping bring
the message from this work forward.
Psychedelics is simply a protocol.
It's a new methodology for accessing these
deep states
of consciousness,
but it's simply a modern version.
We have many protocols that have been accessing
these deep states of consciousness.
Psychedelics
are not important.
They're not the
signature of this work.
They're simply an amplifier.
It's consciousness that does the work.
It's consciousness that if we use these sessions
skillfully, it's consciousness that really
does the work that opens us to these things.
So I would really, at the end,
I would de-emphasize the psychedelics and
emphasize
the consciousness which psychedelics amplify
And there are many ways to reach that.
Again, Christopher, thank you so much.
And I look forward to meeting you in the flesh
in the Gaia Studios where we'll go over this,
but start filling in some of the pieces
we weren't able to get to today.
Okay?
Thank you, Regina.
And I look forward to that too.
Thank you.
So everybody, again,
the title of the book is
LSD and the Mind of the Universe,
Christopher Bache.
And I can't recommend it highly enough.
It'll take you to places that you never dreamed
existed.
So until next time, thank you for joining
us here on
ReginaMeredith.com.
If you enjoyed this video,
be sure to subscribe to my YouTube channel.
And you might also want to consider joining
Patreon,
which allows me to keep all of this content
free
and available to everyone.
And if you're looking for like-minded souls,
you might also enjoy my online community
called Our Neighborhood.
Links to join are in the description.